cv.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Curriculum vitae
permalink: /cv/
---

### Personal information

**First names:** <ins>Susi</ins> Samuli

**Last name:** Lehtola

### Researcher profiles

These are in a rough order of accuracy - Google Scholar is most up to date.

| Site | ID |
| ---- | -- |
| [Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=M-OAnnwAAAAJ) | M-OAnnwAAAAJ |
| [ORCID](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6296-8103) | 0000-0001-6296-8103 |
| [Web of Science](https://www.webofscience.com/wos/author/rid/H-1828-2013) | H-1828-2013 |
| [Scopus](http://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=55586137400) | 55586137400 |
   
### Current position

Academy research fellow

[Docent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docent) in computational chemistry at University of Helsinki 

Reviewer for the following journals (see also my [Publons profile](https://publons.com/author/1202953/susi-lehtola) which is probably more up to date):
+ [AIP Advances](https://aip.scitation.org/journal/adv)
+ [Annalen der Physik](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/15213889)
+ [Chemical Physics Letters](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/chemical-physics-letters)
+ [Computational and Theoretical Chemistry](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/computational-and-theoretical-chemistry)
+ [Computer Physics Communications](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications)
+ [International Journal of Quantum Chemistry](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1097-461X)
+ [Journal of Chemical Physics](http://jcp.aip.org/)
+ [Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation](http://pubs.acs.org/journal/jctcce)
+ [Journal of Computational Chemistry](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/1096987x)
+ [Journal of Physical Chemistry A](https://pubs.acs.org/journal/jpcafh)
+ [Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters](https://pubs.acs.org/journal/jpclcd)
+ [Molecular Physics](http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/tmph20)
+ [Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/journals/journalissues/cp)
+ [Periodica Polytechnica Chemical Engineering](https://pp.bme.hu/ch)
+ [Radiation Effects and Defects in Solids](http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/grad20/current)

### Education

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in theoretical physics ([PhD thesis here](http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-952-10-8091-3)), University of Helsinki, 2013

Master of Science (MSc) in theoretical physics, University of Helsinki, 2008.
Majors in theoretical physics and physics, minor in mathematics. Specialization in computational physics.

### Honors and awards
+ President of computational chemistry section of Finnish Chemical Society, 2018-2019
+ President of computational physics section of Finnish Physical Society, 2019
+ Member of Finnish Academy Club for Young Scientists 2016-2017
+ L&ouml;wdin postdoctoral fellow award, 57th Sanibel Meeting 2017
+ Member of Finnish Academy for Young Scientists 2017-2020

### Computer skills

Fluent in C, C++, Fortran, and Python.<br>
Experience with MPI and OpenMP parallel programming.

Extensive experience with Red Hat Linux systems both on user and
administrator level. Packager for Fedora Linux; sponsor and provenpackager status. Fluent with shell scripting and awk.

### Selected work history

| Year | Position |
| ---- | -------- |
| 2022-2027 | Academy of Finland research fellow |
| | Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland|
| 2020-2022 | Software Scientist |
| | Molecular Sciences Software Institute at Virginia Tech, United States |
| 2017-2020 | Academy of Finland postdoctoral fellow |
| | Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland|
| 2014-2017 | Postdoctoral fellow |
| | Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, United States |
| 2013-2014 | Postdoctoral researcher |
| | Department of Applied Physics, Aalto University, Finland|
| 2008-2013 | PhD student with teaching duties | 
| | Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Finland |
| 2003-2008 | IT support and maintenance, some teaching |
| | Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Finland |


### Teaching

| Term | Course | Level | Role |
| ---- | ------ | ----- | ---- |
| spring 2023 | Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2019 | Scientific Computing III | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2018 | Molecular properties | postgraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2012 | Scientific Programming in C | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2012 | Advanced Quantum Chemistry | postgraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2011 | Nuclear Physics | graduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2011 | Electrodynamics | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2010 | Classical Mechanics | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2010 | Quantum Mechanics II | graduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2009 | Continuum Mechanics | graduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2009 | Fundamental physics course labs | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2008 | Fundamental physics course labs | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2007 | Solid State Physics II | graduate | teaching assistant | 
| fall 2006 | Quantum Mechanics I | undergraduate | study circle coach | 
| fall 2005 | Mathematical Methods for Physicists | undergraduate | teaching assistant | 

### Language skills

| Language | Level |
| -------- | ----- |
| Finnish | Native |
| English | Fluent |
| French | Fluent |
| Italian | Fluent |
| German | Conversational |
| Swedish | Conversational |
| Spanish | Beginner |

Commit message:

Mention vice directorship in cv, and lectured MEST course

cv.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Curriculum vitae
permalink: /cv/
---

### Personal information

**First names:** <ins>Susi</ins> Samuli

**Last name:** Lehtola

### Researcher profiles

These are in a rough order of accuracy - Google Scholar is most up to date.

| Site | ID |
| ---- | -- |
| [Google Scholar](http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=M-OAnnwAAAAJ) | M-OAnnwAAAAJ |
| [ORCID](http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6296-8103) | 0000-0001-6296-8103 |
| [Web of Science](https://www.webofscience.com/wos/author/rid/H-1828-2013) | H-1828-2013 |
| [Scopus](http://www.scopus.com/authid/detail.uri?authorId=55586137400) | 55586137400 |
   
### Current position

Academy research fellow

[Docent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Docent) in computational chemistry at University of Helsinki 

Reviewer for the following journals (see also my [Publons profile](https://publons.com/author/1202953/susi-lehtola) which is probably more up to date):
+ [AIP Advances](https://aip.scitation.org/journal/adv)
+ [Annalen der Physik](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/15213889)
+ [Chemical Physics Letters](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/chemical-physics-letters)
+ [Computational and Theoretical Chemistry](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/computational-and-theoretical-chemistry)
+ [Computer Physics Communications](https://www.journals.elsevier.com/computer-physics-communications)
+ [International Journal of Quantum Chemistry](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1097-461X)
+ [Journal of Chemical Physics](http://jcp.aip.org/)
+ [Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation](http://pubs.acs.org/journal/jctcce)
+ [Journal of Computational Chemistry](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/journal/1096987x)
+ [Journal of Physical Chemistry A](https://pubs.acs.org/journal/jpcafh)
+ [Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters](https://pubs.acs.org/journal/jpclcd)
+ [Molecular Physics](http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/tmph20)
+ [Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/journals/journalissues/cp)
+ [Periodica Polytechnica Chemical Engineering](https://pp.bme.hu/ch)
+ [Radiation Effects and Defects in Solids](http://www.tandfonline.com/toc/grad20/current)

### Education

Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in theoretical physics ([PhD thesis here](http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-952-10-8091-3)), University of Helsinki, 2013

Master of Science (MSc) in theoretical physics, University of Helsinki, 2008.
Majors in theoretical physics and physics, minor in mathematics. Specialization in computational physics.

### Honors and awards
+ President of computational chemistry section of Finnish Chemical Society, 2018-2019
+ President of computational physics section of Finnish Physical Society, 2019
+ Member of Finnish Academy Club for Young Scientists 2016-2017
+ L&ouml;wdin postdoctoral fellow award, 57th Sanibel Meeting 2017
+ Member of Finnish Academy for Young Scientists 2017-2020

### Computer skills

Fluent in C, C++, Fortran, and Python.<br>
Experience with MPI and OpenMP parallel programming.

Extensive experience with Red Hat Linux systems both on user and
administrator level. Packager for Fedora Linux; sponsor and provenpackager status. Fluent with shell scripting and awk.

### Selected work history

| Year | Position |
| ---- | -------- |
| 2025-     | Vice director of Theoretical and Computational Methods (TCM) Master's Programme |
| | Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland|
| 2022-2027 | Academy of Finland research fellow |
| | Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland|
| 2020-2022 | Software Scientist |
| | Molecular Sciences Software Institute at Virginia Tech, United States |
| 2017-2020 | Academy of Finland postdoctoral fellow |
| | Department of Chemistry, University of Helsinki, Finland|
| 2014-2017 | Postdoctoral fellow |
| | Chemical Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, United States |
| 2013-2014 | Postdoctoral researcher |
| | Department of Applied Physics, Aalto University, Finland|
| 2008-2013 | PhD student with teaching duties | 
| | Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Finland |
| 2003-2008 | IT support and maintenance, some teaching |
| | Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Finland |


### Teaching

| Term | Course | Level | Role |
| ---- | ------ | ----- | ---- |
| fall 2024 | Molecular Electronic Structure Theory | postgraduate | lecturer |
| spring 2023 | Numerical Methods in Scientific Computing | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2019 | Scientific Computing III | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2018 | Molecular properties | postgraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2012 | Scientific Programming in C | graduate | lecturer |
| spring 2012 | Advanced Quantum Chemistry | postgraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2011 | Nuclear Physics | graduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2011 | Electrodynamics | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2010 | Classical Mechanics | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2010 | Quantum Mechanics II | graduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2009 | Continuum Mechanics | graduate | teaching assistant |
| spring 2009 | Fundamental physics course labs | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2008 | Fundamental physics course labs | undergraduate | teaching assistant |
| fall 2007 | Solid State Physics II | graduate | teaching assistant | 
| fall 2006 | Quantum Mechanics I | undergraduate | study circle coach | 
| fall 2005 | Mathematical Methods for Physicists | undergraduate | teaching assistant | 

### Language skills

| Language | Level |
| -------- | ----- |
| Finnish | Native |
| English | Fluent |
| French | Fluent |
| Italian | Fluent |
| German | Conversational |
| Swedish | Conversational |
| Spanish | Beginner |
