publications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: List of publications
permalink: /publications/
---

![](/images/PCCP_cover.jpg) ![](/images/ijqc_cover.jpg)

<!--Some preprints of articles currently in review:-->

Here is a list of my peer-reviewed scientific publications in inverse chronological order. Note that the first five (last on the list) are under my ex first name.

1. E. Epifanovsky el al., Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 package, *J. Chem. Phys.*, in press (2021).
1. G. Bilalbegovi&#x0107;, A. Maksimovi&#x0107;, L. A. Valencic, and **S. Lehtola**, [Sulfur molecules in space by X-rays: a computational study](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00238), *ACS Earth Space Chem.* **5**, 436 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00238 **open access**
1. R. K. Jinger, H. Fliegl, R. Bast, M. Dimitrova, **S. Lehtola**, and D. Sundholm, [Spatial contributions to nuclear magnetic shieldings](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.0c10884), *J. Phys. Chem. A* **125**, 1778 (2021). DOI&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jpca.0c10884 [arXiv:2012.03048](http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.03048) **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Dimitrova, H. Fliegl, and D. Sundholm, [Benchmarking magnetizabilities with recent density functionals](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01190), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **17**, 1457 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01190 [arXiv:2011.06560](http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.06560) **open access** [Erratum](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.1c00466)
1. **S. Lehtola** and M. A. L. Marques, [Meta-local density functionals: a new rung on Jacob's ladder](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01147), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **17**, 943 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01147. [arXiv:2006.16835](http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.16835) **open access**
1. S. Schwalbe, L. Fiedler, J. Kraus, J. Kortus, K. Trepte, and **S. Lehtola**, [PyFLOSIC: Python-based Fermi-Löwdin orbital self-interaction correction](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0012519), *J. Chem. Phys.* **153**, 084104 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0012519. [arXiv:1905.02631](http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.02631)
1. Q. Sun, X. Zhang, S. Banerjee, P. Bao, M. Barbry, N. S. Blunt, N. A. Bogdanov, G. H. Booth, J. Chen, Z.-H. Cui, J. J. Eriksen, Y. Gao, S. Guo, J. Hermann, M. R. Hermes, K. Koh, P. Koval, **S. Lehtola**, Z. Li, J. Liu, N. Mardirossian, J. D. McClain, M. Motta, B. Mussard, H. Q. Pham, A. Pulkin, W. Purwanto, P. J. Robinson, E. Ronca, E. Sayfutyarova, M. Scheurer, H. F. Schurkus, J. E. T. Smith, C. Sun, S.-N. Sun, S. Upadhyay, L. K. Wagner, X. Wang, A. White, J. D. Whitfield, M. J. Williamson, S. Wouters, J. Yang, J. M. Yu, T. Zhu, T. C. Berkelbach, S. Sharma, A. Sokolov, and G. K.-L. Chan, [Recent developments in the PySCF program package](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0006074), *J. Chem. Phys.* **153**, 024109 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0006074. [arXiv:2002.12531](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.12531)
1. D. G. A. Smith, L. A. Burns, A. C. Simmonett, R. M. Parrish, M. C. Schieber, R. Galvelis, P. Kraus, H. Kruse, R. Di Remigio, A. Alenaizan, A. M. James, **S. Lehtola**, J. P. Misiewicz, M. Scheurer, R. A. Shaw, J. B. Schriber, Y. Xie, Z. L. Glick, D. A. Sirianni, J. S. O’Brien, J. M. Waldrop, A. Kumar, E. G. Hohenstein, B. P. Pritchard, B. R. Brooks, H. F. Schaefer III, A. Yu. Sokolov, K. Patkowski, A. E. DePrince III, U. Bozkaya, R. A. King, F. A. Evangelista, J. M. Turney, T. D. Crawford, and C. D. Sherrill, [Psi4 1.4: Open-Source Software for High-Throughput Quantum Chemistry](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0006002), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 184108 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0006002 [chemrXiv:11930031](http://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv.11930031.v1)
1. **S. Lehtola**, L. Visscher, and E. Engel, [Efficient implementation of the superposition of atomic potentials initial guess for electronic structure calculations in Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004046), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 144105 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0004046 [arXiv:2002.02587](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.02587)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Polarized Gaussian basis sets from one-electron ions](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5144964), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 134108 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5144964 [arXiv:2001.04224](http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04224)
1. D. S. Levine, D. Hait, N. M. Tubman, **S. Lehtola**, K. B. Whaley, and M. Head-Gordon, [CASSCF with extremely large active spaces using the adaptive sampling configuration interaction method](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.9b01255), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **16**, 2340 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.9b01255 [arXiv:1912.08379](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.08379)
1. **S. Lehtola**, F. Blockhuys, and C. Van Alsenoy, [An overview of self-consistent field calculations within finite basis sets](http://doi.org/10.3390/molecules25051218), *Molecules* **25**, 1218 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.3390/molecules25051218 [arXiv:1912.12029](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.12029)  **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Accurate reproduction of strongly repulsive interatomic potentials](http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.032504), *Phys. Rev. A* **101**, 032504 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1103/PhysRevA.101.032504 [arXiv:1912.12624](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.12624)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical calculations on atoms with fractional occupations and range-separated exchange functionals](http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.012516), *Phys. Rev. A* **101**, 012516 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1103/PhysRevA.101.012516 [arXiv:1908.02528](http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02528)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Curing basis set overcompleteness with pivoted Cholesky decompositions](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5139948), *J. Chem. Phys.* **151**, 241102 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5139948 [arXiv:1911.10372](http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.10372)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [A review on non-relativistic fully numerical electronic structure calculations on atoms and diatomic molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25968), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25968 (2019).  DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25968 [arXiv:1902.01431](http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.01431) **open access**
1. C. Shahi, P. Bhattarai, K. Wagle, B. Santra, S. Schwalbe, T. Hahn, J. Kortus, K. A. Jackson, J. E. Peralta, K. Trepte, **S. Lehtola**, N. K. Nepal, H. Myneni, B. Neupane, S. Adhikari, A. Ruzsinszky, Y. Yamamoto, T. Baruah, R. R. Zope, and J. P. Perdew, [Stretched or noded orbital densities and self-interaction correction in density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5087065), *J. Chem. Phys.*  **150**, 174102 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5087065 [arXiv:1903.00611](http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.00611)
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Dimitrova, and D. Sundholm, [Fully numerical electronic structure calculations on diatomic molecules in weak to strong magnetic fields](http://doi.org/10.1080/00268976.2019.1597989), *Mol. Phys.* **118**, e1597989 (2020), DOI:&nbsp;10.1080/00268976.2019.1597989 [arXiv:1812.06274](http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.06274)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical Hartree&ndash;Fock and density functional calculations. II. Diatomic molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25944), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25944 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25944 [arXiv:1810.11653](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11653)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical Hartree&ndash;Fock and density functional calculations. I. Atoms](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25945), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25945 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25945 [arXiv:1810.11651](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11651)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Assessment of initial guesses for self-consistent field calculations. Superposition of Atomic Potentials: simple yet efficient](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01089), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **15**, 1593 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01089. [arXiv:1810.11659](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11659) **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, C. Steigemann, M. J. T. Oliveira, and M. A. L. Marques, [Recent developments in LIBXC &mdash; a comprehensive library of functionals for density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2017.11.002), *SoftwareX* **7**, 1 (2018). DOI&nbsp;10.1016/j.softx.2017.11.002 **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, N. M. Tubman, K. B. Whaley, and M. Head-Gordon, [Cluster decomposition of full configuration interaction wave functions: a tool for chemical interpretation of systems with strong correlation](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4996044), *J. Chem. Phys.* **147**, 154105 (2017). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4996044 [arXiv:1707.04376](http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.04376)
1. **S. Lehtola**, J. Parkhill, and M. Head-Gordon, [Orbital optimization in the perfect pairing hierarchy. Applications to full-valence calculations on linear polyacenes](http://doi.org/10.1080/00268976.2017.1342009), *Mol. Phys.* **116**, 547 (2018), DOI:&nbsp;10.1080/00268976.2017.1342009 [arXiv:1705.01678](http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01678)
1. E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, **S. Lehtola**, M. Puska, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Theory and applications of generalized Pipek&ndash;Mezey Wannier functions](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00809 ), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **13**, 460 (2017). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00809 [arXiv:1608.06396](http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06396)
1. **S. Lehtola**, J. Parkhill, and M. Head-Gordon, [Cost-effective description of strong correlation: efficient implementations of the perfect quadruples and perfect hextuples models](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4964317), *J. Chem. Phys.* **145**, 134110 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4964317 [arXiv:1609.00077](http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.00077)
1. **S. Lehtola**, E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [The effect of complex-valued optimal orbitals on atomization energies with the Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction correction to density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00622), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **12**, 4296 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00622 [Computational Chemistry Highlight](http://www.compchemhighlights.org/2016/08/effect-of-complex-valued-optimal.html)
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Head-Gordon, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Complex orbitals, multiple local minima and symmetry breaking in Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction corrected density-functional theory calculations](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00347), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **12**, 3195 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00347
1. E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, **S. Lehtola**, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Towards an optimal gradient-dependent energy functional of the PZ-SIC form](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.417), *Proc. Comput. Sci* **51**, 1858 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.417
1. J. Niskanen, C. Sahle, I. Juurinen, J. Koskelo, **S. Lehtola**, R. Verbeni, H. M&uuml;ller, M. Hakala, and S. Huotari, [Protonation dynamics and hydrogen bonding in aqueuos sulfuric acid](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b04371), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **119**, 11732 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b04371
1. T. P. Rossi, **S. Lehtola**, A. Sakko, M. J. Puska, and R. M. Nieminen, [Nanoplasmonics simulations at the basis set limit through completeness-optimized, local numerical basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4913739), *J. Chem. Phys.* **142**, 094114 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4913739
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Automatic algorithms for completeness-optimization of Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23802), *J. Comput. Chem.* **36**, 335 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/jcc.23802
1. J. Koskelo, I. Juurinen, K. Ruotsalainen, M. McGrath, I.-F. Kuo, **S. Lehtola**, S. Galambosi, K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, S. Huotari, and M. Hakala, [Intra- and intermolecular effects on the Compton profile of the ionic liquid 1,3-dimethylimidazolium chloride](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4904278), *J. Chem. Phys.* **141**, 244505 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4904278
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Variational, self-consistent implementation of the Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction correction with complex optimal orbitals](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct500637x), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **10**, 5324 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct500637x [Erratum I](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00039) [Erratum II](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00806)
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Pipek&ndash;Mezey orbital localization using various partial charge estimates](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct401016x), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **10**, 642 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct401016x
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Unitary optimization of localized molecular orbitals](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct400793q), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **9**, 5365 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct400793q
1. C. J. Sahle, C. Sternemann, C. Schmidt, **S. Lehtola**, S. Jahn, L. Simonelli, S. Huotari, M. Hakala, T. Pylkk&auml;nen, A. Nyrow, K. Mende, M. Tolan, K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, and M. Wilke, [Microscopic structure of water at elevated pressures and temperatures](http://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1220301110), *Proc. Nat. Acad. Sciences* **110**, 6301 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1073/pnas.1220301110
1. **S. Lehtola**, P. Manninen, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Contraction of completeness-optimized basis sets. Application to ground-state electron momentum densities](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4788635), *J. Chem. Phys.* **138**, 044109 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4788635
1. **J. Lehtola**, P. Manninen, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Completeness-optimized basis sets. Application to ground-state electron momentum densities](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4749272), *J. Chem. Phys.* **137**, 104105 (2012). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4749272
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, A. Sakko and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [ERKALE &mdash; a flexible program package for x-ray properties of atoms and molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.22987), *J. Comput. Chem.* **33**, 1572 (2012). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/jcc.22987
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, J. Vaara and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Calculation of isotropic Compton profiles with Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1039/C0CP02269A), *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **13**, 5630 (2011). DOI:&nbsp;10.1039/C0CP02269A
1. T. Pylkk&auml;nen, **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, A. Sakko, G. Monaco, S. Huotari and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Universal signature of hydrogen bonding in the oxygen K-edge spectrum of alcohols](http://doi.org/10.1021/jp106479a), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **114**, 13076 (2010). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/jp106479a
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Structure of liquid linear alcohols](http://doi.org/10.1021/jp909894y), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **114**, 6426 (2010). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/jp909894y
{: reversed="reversed"}

My PhD thesis can be found here:
[Computational modeling of the electron momentum density](http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-952-10-8091-3).

Commit message:

Auxiliary basis preprint on arxiv

publications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: List of publications
permalink: /publications/
---

![](/images/PCCP_cover.jpg) ![](/images/ijqc_cover.jpg)

Some preprints of articles currently in review:
- **S. Lehtola**, Straightforward and accurate automatic auxiliary basis set generation for molecular calculations with atomic orbital basis sets, [arXiv:2106.11081](http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.11081)

Here is a list of my peer-reviewed scientific publications in inverse chronological order. Note that the first five (last on the list) are under my ex first name.

1. E. Epifanovsky el al., Software for the frontiers of quantum chemistry: An overview of developments in the Q-Chem 5 package, *J. Chem. Phys.*, in press (2021).
1. G. Bilalbegovi&#x0107;, A. Maksimovi&#x0107;, L. A. Valencic, and **S. Lehtola**, [Sulfur molecules in space by X-rays: a computational study](http://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00238), *ACS Earth Space Chem.* **5**, 436 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acsearthspacechem.0c00238 **open access**
1. R. K. Jinger, H. Fliegl, R. Bast, M. Dimitrova, **S. Lehtola**, and D. Sundholm, [Spatial contributions to nuclear magnetic shieldings](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.0c10884), *J. Phys. Chem. A* **125**, 1778 (2021). DOI&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jpca.0c10884 [arXiv:2012.03048](http://arxiv.org/abs/2012.03048) **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Dimitrova, H. Fliegl, and D. Sundholm, [Benchmarking magnetizabilities with recent density functionals](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01190), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **17**, 1457 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01190 [arXiv:2011.06560](http://arxiv.org/abs/2011.06560) **open access** [Erratum](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.1c00466)
1. **S. Lehtola** and M. A. L. Marques, [Meta-local density functionals: a new rung on Jacob's ladder](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01147), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **17**, 943 (2021). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.0c01147. [arXiv:2006.16835](http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.16835) **open access**
1. S. Schwalbe, L. Fiedler, J. Kraus, J. Kortus, K. Trepte, and **S. Lehtola**, [PyFLOSIC: Python-based Fermi-Löwdin orbital self-interaction correction](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0012519), *J. Chem. Phys.* **153**, 084104 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0012519. [arXiv:1905.02631](http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.02631)
1. Q. Sun, X. Zhang, S. Banerjee, P. Bao, M. Barbry, N. S. Blunt, N. A. Bogdanov, G. H. Booth, J. Chen, Z.-H. Cui, J. J. Eriksen, Y. Gao, S. Guo, J. Hermann, M. R. Hermes, K. Koh, P. Koval, **S. Lehtola**, Z. Li, J. Liu, N. Mardirossian, J. D. McClain, M. Motta, B. Mussard, H. Q. Pham, A. Pulkin, W. Purwanto, P. J. Robinson, E. Ronca, E. Sayfutyarova, M. Scheurer, H. F. Schurkus, J. E. T. Smith, C. Sun, S.-N. Sun, S. Upadhyay, L. K. Wagner, X. Wang, A. White, J. D. Whitfield, M. J. Williamson, S. Wouters, J. Yang, J. M. Yu, T. Zhu, T. C. Berkelbach, S. Sharma, A. Sokolov, and G. K.-L. Chan, [Recent developments in the PySCF program package](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0006074), *J. Chem. Phys.* **153**, 024109 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0006074. [arXiv:2002.12531](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.12531)
1. D. G. A. Smith, L. A. Burns, A. C. Simmonett, R. M. Parrish, M. C. Schieber, R. Galvelis, P. Kraus, H. Kruse, R. Di Remigio, A. Alenaizan, A. M. James, **S. Lehtola**, J. P. Misiewicz, M. Scheurer, R. A. Shaw, J. B. Schriber, Y. Xie, Z. L. Glick, D. A. Sirianni, J. S. O’Brien, J. M. Waldrop, A. Kumar, E. G. Hohenstein, B. P. Pritchard, B. R. Brooks, H. F. Schaefer III, A. Yu. Sokolov, K. Patkowski, A. E. DePrince III, U. Bozkaya, R. A. King, F. A. Evangelista, J. M. Turney, T. D. Crawford, and C. D. Sherrill, [Psi4 1.4: Open-Source Software for High-Throughput Quantum Chemistry](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0006002), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 184108 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0006002 [chemrXiv:11930031](http://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv.11930031.v1)
1. **S. Lehtola**, L. Visscher, and E. Engel, [Efficient implementation of the superposition of atomic potentials initial guess for electronic structure calculations in Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1063/5.0004046), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 144105 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/5.0004046 [arXiv:2002.02587](http://arxiv.org/abs/2002.02587)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Polarized Gaussian basis sets from one-electron ions](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5144964), *J. Chem. Phys.* **152**, 134108 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5144964 [arXiv:2001.04224](http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.04224)
1. D. S. Levine, D. Hait, N. M. Tubman, **S. Lehtola**, K. B. Whaley, and M. Head-Gordon, [CASSCF with extremely large active spaces using the adaptive sampling configuration interaction method](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.9b01255), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **16**, 2340 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.9b01255 [arXiv:1912.08379](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.08379)
1. **S. Lehtola**, F. Blockhuys, and C. Van Alsenoy, [An overview of self-consistent field calculations within finite basis sets](http://doi.org/10.3390/molecules25051218), *Molecules* **25**, 1218 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.3390/molecules25051218 [arXiv:1912.12029](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.12029)  **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Accurate reproduction of strongly repulsive interatomic potentials](http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.032504), *Phys. Rev. A* **101**, 032504 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1103/PhysRevA.101.032504 [arXiv:1912.12624](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.12624)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical calculations on atoms with fractional occupations and range-separated exchange functionals](http://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevA.101.012516), *Phys. Rev. A* **101**, 012516 (2020). DOI:&nbsp;10.1103/PhysRevA.101.012516 [arXiv:1908.02528](http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.02528)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Curing basis set overcompleteness with pivoted Cholesky decompositions](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5139948), *J. Chem. Phys.* **151**, 241102 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5139948 [arXiv:1911.10372](http://arxiv.org/abs/1911.10372)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [A review on non-relativistic fully numerical electronic structure calculations on atoms and diatomic molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25968), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25968 (2019).  DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25968 [arXiv:1902.01431](http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.01431) **open access**
1. C. Shahi, P. Bhattarai, K. Wagle, B. Santra, S. Schwalbe, T. Hahn, J. Kortus, K. A. Jackson, J. E. Peralta, K. Trepte, **S. Lehtola**, N. K. Nepal, H. Myneni, B. Neupane, S. Adhikari, A. Ruzsinszky, Y. Yamamoto, T. Baruah, R. R. Zope, and J. P. Perdew, [Stretched or noded orbital densities and self-interaction correction in density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.5087065), *J. Chem. Phys.*  **150**, 174102 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.5087065 [arXiv:1903.00611](http://arxiv.org/abs/1903.00611)
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Dimitrova, and D. Sundholm, [Fully numerical electronic structure calculations on diatomic molecules in weak to strong magnetic fields](http://doi.org/10.1080/00268976.2019.1597989), *Mol. Phys.* **118**, e1597989 (2020), DOI:&nbsp;10.1080/00268976.2019.1597989 [arXiv:1812.06274](http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.06274)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical Hartree&ndash;Fock and density functional calculations. II. Diatomic molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25944), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25944 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25944 [arXiv:1810.11653](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11653)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Fully numerical Hartree&ndash;Fock and density functional calculations. I. Atoms](http://doi.org/10.1002/qua.25945), *Int. J. Quantum Chem.* **119**, e25945 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/qua.25945 [arXiv:1810.11651](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11651)
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Assessment of initial guesses for self-consistent field calculations. Superposition of Atomic Potentials: simple yet efficient](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01089), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **15**, 1593 (2019). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.8b01089. [arXiv:1810.11659](http://arxiv.org/abs/1810.11659) **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, C. Steigemann, M. J. T. Oliveira, and M. A. L. Marques, [Recent developments in LIBXC &mdash; a comprehensive library of functionals for density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.softx.2017.11.002), *SoftwareX* **7**, 1 (2018). DOI&nbsp;10.1016/j.softx.2017.11.002 **open access**
1. **S. Lehtola**, N. M. Tubman, K. B. Whaley, and M. Head-Gordon, [Cluster decomposition of full configuration interaction wave functions: a tool for chemical interpretation of systems with strong correlation](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4996044), *J. Chem. Phys.* **147**, 154105 (2017). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4996044 [arXiv:1707.04376](http://arxiv.org/abs/1707.04376)
1. **S. Lehtola**, J. Parkhill, and M. Head-Gordon, [Orbital optimization in the perfect pairing hierarchy. Applications to full-valence calculations on linear polyacenes](http://doi.org/10.1080/00268976.2017.1342009), *Mol. Phys.* **116**, 547 (2018), DOI:&nbsp;10.1080/00268976.2017.1342009 [arXiv:1705.01678](http://arxiv.org/abs/1705.01678)
1. E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, **S. Lehtola**, M. Puska, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Theory and applications of generalized Pipek&ndash;Mezey Wannier functions](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00809 ), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **13**, 460 (2017). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00809 [arXiv:1608.06396](http://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06396)
1. **S. Lehtola**, J. Parkhill, and M. Head-Gordon, [Cost-effective description of strong correlation: efficient implementations of the perfect quadruples and perfect hextuples models](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4964317), *J. Chem. Phys.* **145**, 134110 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4964317 [arXiv:1609.00077](http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.00077)
1. **S. Lehtola**, E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [The effect of complex-valued optimal orbitals on atomization energies with the Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction correction to density functional theory](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00622), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **12**, 4296 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00622 [Computational Chemistry Highlight](http://www.compchemhighlights.org/2016/08/effect-of-complex-valued-optimal.html)
1. **S. Lehtola**, M. Head-Gordon, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Complex orbitals, multiple local minima and symmetry breaking in Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction corrected density-functional theory calculations](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00347), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **12**, 3195 (2016). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00347
1. E. &Ouml;. J&oacute;nsson, **S. Lehtola**, and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Towards an optimal gradient-dependent energy functional of the PZ-SIC form](http://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.417), *Proc. Comput. Sci* **51**, 1858 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1016/j.procs.2015.05.417
1. J. Niskanen, C. Sahle, I. Juurinen, J. Koskelo, **S. Lehtola**, R. Verbeni, H. M&uuml;ller, M. Hakala, and S. Huotari, [Protonation dynamics and hydrogen bonding in aqueuos sulfuric acid](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b04371), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **119**, 11732 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/acs.jpcb.5b04371
1. T. P. Rossi, **S. Lehtola**, A. Sakko, M. J. Puska, and R. M. Nieminen, [Nanoplasmonics simulations at the basis set limit through completeness-optimized, local numerical basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4913739), *J. Chem. Phys.* **142**, 094114 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4913739
1. **S. Lehtola**, [Automatic algorithms for completeness-optimization of Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.23802), *J. Comput. Chem.* **36**, 335 (2015). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/jcc.23802
1. J. Koskelo, I. Juurinen, K. Ruotsalainen, M. McGrath, I.-F. Kuo, **S. Lehtola**, S. Galambosi, K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, S. Huotari, and M. Hakala, [Intra- and intermolecular effects on the Compton profile of the ionic liquid 1,3-dimethylimidazolium chloride](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4904278), *J. Chem. Phys.* **141**, 244505 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4904278
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Variational, self-consistent implementation of the Perdew&ndash;Zunger self-interaction correction with complex optimal orbitals](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct500637x), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **10**, 5324 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct500637x [Erratum I](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00039) [Erratum II](http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00806)
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Pipek&ndash;Mezey orbital localization using various partial charge estimates](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct401016x), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **10**, 642 (2014). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct401016x
1. **S. Lehtola** and H. J&oacute;nsson, [Unitary optimization of localized molecular orbitals](http://doi.org/10.1021/ct400793q), *J. Chem. Theory Comput.* **9**, 5365 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/ct400793q
1. C. J. Sahle, C. Sternemann, C. Schmidt, **S. Lehtola**, S. Jahn, L. Simonelli, S. Huotari, M. Hakala, T. Pylkk&auml;nen, A. Nyrow, K. Mende, M. Tolan, K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, and M. Wilke, [Microscopic structure of water at elevated pressures and temperatures](http://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1220301110), *Proc. Nat. Acad. Sciences* **110**, 6301 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1073/pnas.1220301110
1. **S. Lehtola**, P. Manninen, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Contraction of completeness-optimized basis sets. Application to ground-state electron momentum densities](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4788635), *J. Chem. Phys.* **138**, 044109 (2013). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4788635
1. **J. Lehtola**, P. Manninen, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Completeness-optimized basis sets. Application to ground-state electron momentum densities](http://doi.org/10.1063/1.4749272), *J. Chem. Phys.* **137**, 104105 (2012). DOI:&nbsp;10.1063/1.4749272
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, A. Sakko and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [ERKALE &mdash; a flexible program package for x-ray properties of atoms and molecules](http://doi.org/10.1002/jcc.22987), *J. Comput. Chem.* **33**, 1572 (2012). DOI:&nbsp;10.1002/jcc.22987
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, J. Vaara and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Calculation of isotropic Compton profiles with Gaussian basis sets](http://doi.org/10.1039/C0CP02269A), *Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.* **13**, 5630 (2011). DOI:&nbsp;10.1039/C0CP02269A
1. T. Pylkk&auml;nen, **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala, A. Sakko, G. Monaco, S. Huotari and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Universal signature of hydrogen bonding in the oxygen K-edge spectrum of alcohols](http://doi.org/10.1021/jp106479a), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **114**, 13076 (2010). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/jp106479a
1. **J. Lehtola**, M. Hakala and K. H&auml;m&auml;l&auml;inen, [Structure of liquid linear alcohols](http://doi.org/10.1021/jp909894y), *J. Phys. Chem. B* **114**, 6426 (2010). DOI:&nbsp;10.1021/jp909894y
{: reversed="reversed"}

My PhD thesis can be found here:
[Computational modeling of the electron momentum density](http://urn.fi/URN:ISBN:978-952-10-8091-3).
